Release notes 2.3.3 (#691)
portworx/pxdocs: content/reference/release-notes/portworx.md

series: release-notes
---

## 2.3.3

January 23, 2020

### Improvements

Portworx has upgraded or enhanced functionality in the following areas:

|**Improvement Number**|**Improvement Description**|
|----|----|
| PWX-10819 | `replica anti-affinity` rules have been deprecated. <br/><br/>**User impact:** Volume creation may fail if using replica anti-affinity volume placement strategy or when restoring volume using cloud backup configured with such a policy. <br/><br/>**Recommendation:** Remove anti-affinity rules and use affinity rules with NotIn, NotEqual operators to achieve the same effect. |

### Fixes

The following issues have been fixed:

|**Issue Number**|**Issue Description**|
|----|----|

> | PWX-10400 | Portworx volumes would remain attached even after a pod is terminated in Kubernetes.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Upgrades or other operations relying on the `kubectl drain` command got stuck on a node with these attached volumes.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now detaches volumes from terminated Kubernetes pods. |

Reviewer: `Portworx now detaches volumes from terminated Kubernetes pods` should be renamed as

`Portworx has fixed a corner case where a busy volume would stay attached after the terminated Kubernetes pod is terminated`

Author: This sounds like it needs changed in more than just the resolution. How's this? 

```suggestion
| PWX-10400 | In rare situations, a busy volume remained attached even after a pod is terminated in Kubernetes.<br/><br/>**User impact:** Upgrades or other operations relying on the `kubectl drain` command got stuck on a node with these attached volumes.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now detaches these busy volumes from terminated Kubernetes pods. |
```

> | PWX-10809 | Portworx ignored the `max_storage_nodes_per_zone` field when deployed in disaggregated mode on cloud deployments.<br/><br/>**User Impact:** If an existing node was terminated and replaced without releasing its storage devices, Portworx sometimes brought a new node online as a storage node, exceeding the `max_storage_nodes_per_zone` field value.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now correctly enforces the `max_storage_nodes_per_zone` field values. |

Reviewer 2: nit: change this to `max_drive_set_count`

Author: In all mentions? 

```suggestion
| PWX-10809 | Portworx ignored the `max_drive_set_count` field when deployed in disaggregated mode on cloud deployments.<br/><br/>**User Impact:** If an existing node was terminated and replaced without releasing its storage devices, Portworx sometimes brought a new node online as a storage node, exceeding the `max_drive_set_count` field value.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now correctly enforces the `max_drive_set_count` field values. |
```

Reviewer 2: Yes in all mentions.

> | PWX-10627 | Portworx features with different licenses may have different expiration dates. When the base license or feature licenses expired, Portworx capacity changed unexpectedly.<br/><br/>**User Impact:** Users with an expired license could not create new volumes if their cluster exceeded the remaining available license capacity.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now adjusts misaligned base and add-on license expiration dates to expire at the same time. |

Author: ```suggestion
| PWX-10627 | Portworx features with different licenses may have different expiration dates. Previously, Portworx reported only the base license expiration date. When feature licenses expired, Portworx capacity changed unexpectedly.<br/><br/>**User Impact:** Users with an expired add-on license could not create new volumes if their cluster exceeded the remaining base license capacity.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now reports a single expiration date determined by whichever license expires first. |
```

> | PWX-10627 | Portworx features with different licenses may have different expiration dates. Previously, Portworx reported only the base license expiration date. When feature licenses expired, Portworx capacity changed unexpectedly.<br/><br/>**User Impact:** Users with an expired add-on license could not create new volumes if their cluster exceeded the remaining base license capacity.<br/><br/>**Resolution:** Portworx now reports a single expiration date determined by whichever license expires first. |

Reviewer 3: A few issues:
* `different licenses` might be too general -- our docs already describe and deal with "PX-Enterprise` `AddOn` licenses -- so it might be OK to say "combination of PX-Enterprise and AddOn licenses, that expire at different times"
* "capacity changed unexpectedly" -- it's not that it was totally unexpected  (i.e. a bug); we expected this; also, I think the "capacity" intuitively means megabytes, terabytes - while we mean "number of nodes"

Here's what I added into PWX-10627 release notes:
> When misaligned expiry dates are detected between the installed Base and AddOn licenses, we will adjust them to expire at the same time.
> 
> Likewise, the license expiry shown on "pxctl status" or "pxctl license list" will reflect the expiry time of either Base or AddOn licenses, whichever expires sooner.
